Refactor data fetching API docs (#30615)
vercel/next.js: docs/api-reference/data-fetching/getStaticProps.md

| `v9.5.0`  | Stable [Incremental Static Regeneration](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-9-5#stable-incremental-static-regeneration) |
| `v9.3.0`  | `getStaticProps` introduced.                                                                                      |

</details>

Exporting an `async` function called `getStaticProps` will pre-render a page at build time using the props returned from the function:

```jsx
export async function getStaticProps(context) {
  return {
    props: {}, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

You can import modules in top-level scope for use in `getStaticProps`.
Imports used will **not be bundled for the client-side**. This means you can write **server-side code directly in `getStaticProps`**, including fetching data from your database.

If you are calling an external `API`, or fetching data from a database or Content Management System (CMS) in an `API` route, you can move that logic to `getStaticProps`, as both `API` routes and `getStaticProps` run on the server.

Calling an `API` route from within `getStaticProps` can result in an additional call, reducing performance.

> Alternatively, if you are **not** using `API` routes to fetch data, then the [`fetch()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) `API` _can_ be used directly in `getStaticProps` to fetch data.

Reviewer: I see this changed since https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/30615/files#r764824267

Could this have a heading for easier linking? Seems to be a popular mistake.

Author: I had duplicate content around this subject, so have consolidated it in `basic-features/data-fetching/getStaticProps#write-server-side-code-directly`

## Context parameter

The `context` parameter is an object containing the following keys:

- `params` contains the route parameters for pages using [dynamic routes](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes.md). For example, if the page name is `[id].js` , then `params` will look like `{ id: ... }`. You should use this together with `getStaticPaths`, which we’ll explain later.
- `preview` is `true` if the page is in the [Preview Mode](/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode.md) and `undefined` otherwise.
- `previewData` contains the [preview](/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode.md) data set by `setPreviewData`.
- `locale` contains the active locale (if enabled).
- `locales` contains all supported locales (if enabled).
- `defaultLocale` contains the configured default locale (if you've enabled [Internationalized Routing](/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing.md))

## `getStaticProps` return values

The `getStaticProps` function should return an object with the following **optional** properties:

### `props`

> The `props` object is a key-value pair, where each value is received by the page component. It should be a [serializable object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serialization)

Reviewer: Same as here: https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/30615/files#r764820250

I don't feel a Wikipedia link is that helpful to understand what should be done.

```jsx
export async function getStaticProps(context) {
  return {
    props: { message: `Next.js is awesome` }, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

### `revalidate`

The `revalidate` property is the amount in seconds after which a page re-generation can occur (defaults to `false` or no revalidation).

```js
// This function gets called at build time on server-side.
// It may be called again, on a serverless function, if
// revalidation is enabled and a new request comes in
export async function getStaticProps() {
  const res = await fetch('https://.../posts')
  const posts = await res.json()

  return {
    props: {
      posts,
    },
    // Next.js will attempt to re-generate the page:
    // - When a request comes in
    // - At most once every 10 seconds
    revalidate: 10, // In seconds
  }
}
```

Learn more about [Incremental Static Regeneration](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching/incremental-static-regeneration)

### `notFound`

> The `notFound` boolean allows the page to return a `404` status and [404 Page](/docs/advanced-features/custom-error-page.md#404-page). With `notFound: true`, the page will return a `404` even if there was a successfully generated page before. This is meant to support use-cases like user-generated content getting removed by its author.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `notFound` boolean allows the page to return a `404` status and [404 Page](/docs/advanced-features/custom-error-page.md#404-page). With `notFound: true`, the page will return a `404` even if there was a successfully generated page before. This is meant to support use cases like user-generated content getting removed by its author.
```

```js
export async function getStaticProps(context) {
  const res = await fetch(`https://...`)
  const data = await res.json()

  if (!data) {
    return {
      redirect: {
        destination: '/',
        permanent: false,
        // statusCode: 301
      },
    }
  }

  return {
    props: { data }, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

If the redirects are known at build-time, they should be added in [`next.config.js`](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects.md) instead.

## Reading files: Use `process.cwd()`

Files can be read directly from the filesystem in `getStaticProps`.

In order to do so you have to get the full path to a file.

Since Next.js compiles your code into a separate directory you can't use `__dirname` as the path it will return will be different from the pages directory.

Instead you can use `process.cwd()` which gives you the directory where Next.js is being executed.

```jsx
import { promises as fs } from 'fs'
import path from 'path'

// posts will be populated at build time by getStaticProps()
function Blog({ posts }) {
  return (
    <ul>
      {posts.map((post) => (

>         <li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <li key={post.filename}>
```

People will call this out. :smile:

---

> description: Fetch data at build time with `getStaticProps`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Fetch data and generate static pages with `getStaticProps`.
```

Reviewer 2: Bump on this too

---

# `getStaticProps`

<details>
  <summary><b>Version History</b></summary>

| Version   | Changes                                                                                                           |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `v10.0.0` | `locale`, `locales`, `defaultLocale`, and `notFound` options added.                                               |

Reviewer 2: Same comment for version history - non blocking

Author: https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/31953

| `v9.5.0`  | Stable [Incremental Static Regeneration](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-9-5#stable-incremental-static-regeneration) |
| `v9.3.0`  | `getStaticProps` introduced.                                                                                      |

</details>

Exporting an `async` function called `getStaticProps` will pre-render a page at build time using the props returned from the function:

```jsx
export async function getStaticProps(context) {
  return {
    props: {}, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

You can import modules in top-level scope for use in `getStaticProps`.

> Imports used will **not be bundled for the client-side**. This means you can write **server-side code directly in `getStaticProps`**, including reading from the filesystem or a database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imports used will **not be bundled for the client-side**. This means you can write **server-side code directly in `getStaticProps`**, including fetching data from your database.
```

You should not use the [`fetch()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) `API` to call an [`API` route](/docs/api-routes/introduction.md) in `getStaticProps`.

Instead, directly import the logic used inside your `API` route. You may need to slightly refactor your code for this approach.

> The `fetch()` `API` _can_ be used to fetch external data, such as from a Content Management System (CMS) or `API`.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as getStaticPaths

Reviewer 2: This comment still needs to be addressed 🙏

## Context parameter

The `context` parameter is an object containing the following keys:

- `params` contains the route parameters for pages using [dynamic routes](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes.md). For example, if the page name is `[id].js` , then `params` will look like `{ id: ... }`. You should use this together with `getStaticPaths`, which we’ll explain later.
- `preview` is `true` if the page is in the [Preview Mode](/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode.md) and `undefined` otherwise.
- `previewData` contains the [preview](/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode.md) data set by `setPreviewData`.
- `locale` contains the active locale (if enabled).
- `locales` contains all supported locales (if enabled).
- `defaultLocale` contains the configured default locale (if you've enabled [Internationalized Routing](/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing.md))

## `getStaticProps` return values

The `getStaticProps` function should return an object with the following **optional** properties:

### `props`

> The `props` object is a key value pair, where each value is received by the page component. It should be a [serializable object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serialization)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `props` object is a key-value pair, where each value is received by the page component. It should be a [serializable object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serialization)
```

```jsx
export async function getStaticProps(context) {
  return {
    props: { message: `Next.js is awesome` }, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

### `revalidate`

> The `revalidate` property is the amount in seconds after which a page re-generation can occur (defaults to: `false` or no revalidating).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `revalidate` property is the amount in seconds after which a page re-generation can occur (defaults to `false` or no revalidation).
```

```js
// This function gets called at build time on server-side.
// It may be called again, on a serverless function, if
// revalidation is enabled and a new request comes in
export async function getStaticProps() {
  const res = await fetch('https://.../posts')
  const posts = await res.json()

  return {
    props: {
      posts,
    },
    // Next.js will attempt to re-generate the page:
    // - When a request comes in
    // - At most once every 10 seconds
    revalidate: 10, // In seconds
  }
}
```

> More information is covered in [Incremental Static Regeneration](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching/incremental-static-regeneration)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more about [Incremental Static Regeneration](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching/incremental-static-regeneration).
```

Reviewer 2: Bump 😄

### `notFound`

> The `notFound` boolean allows the page to return a 404 status and page. With `notFound: true` the page will return a 404 even if there was a successfully generated page before. This is meant to support use-cases like user generated content getting removed by its author.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `notFound` boolean allows the page to return a `404` status and [404 Page](/docs/advanced-features/custom-error-page.md#404-page). With `notFound: true`, the page will return a `404` even if there was a successfully generated page before. This is meant to support use-cases like user-generated content getting removed by its author.
```

  const res = await fetch(`https://.../data`)
  const data = await res.json()

  if (!data) {
    return {
      notFound: true,
    }
  }

  return {
    props: { data }, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

> **Note**: `notFound` is not needed for [`fallback: false`](/docs/api-reference/data-fetching/getStaticPaths#fallback-false) mode as only paths returned from `getStaticPaths` will be pre-rendered.

### `redirect`

The `redirect` object allows redirecting to internal or external resources. It should match the shape of `{ destination: string, permanent: boolean }`. In some rare cases, you might need to assign a custom status code for older `HTTP` Clients to properly redirect. In these cases, you can use the `statusCode` property instead of the `permanent` property, but not both.

```js
export async function getStaticProps(context) {
  const res = await fetch(`https://...`)
  const data = await res.json()

  if (!data) {
    return {
      redirect: {
        destination: '/',
        permanent: false,
      },
    }
  }

  return {
    props: { data }, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

> Redirecting at build-time is currently not allowed and if the redirects are known at build-time they should be added in [`next.config.js`](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the redirects are known at build-time, they should be added in [`next.config.js`](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects.md) instead.
```

Reviewer 2: Bump 😄

}
```

> Redirecting at build-time is currently not allowed and if the redirects are known at build-time they should be added in [`next.config.js`](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects.md).

Reviewer 2: Just to confirm, removing this was intentional?

Author: It was duplicated, so i removed it here 😊
